website/src/pages/configuration.mdx, before:

---
title: Configuration
emoji: ⚙️
category: reference
description: How to customize and configure Rome with rome.json.
---

import LintGroups from "/components/reference/Groups.astro";
import CodeBlockHeader from "/components/CodeBlockHeader.astro";

{/** Make sure to update the redirect in `static/_redirects` when changing the configuration title --> **/}

# Configuration

The configuration file is considered **optional**, Rome has good defaults. Use the configuration
file to change those defaults.

The Rome configuration file is named `rome.json` and should be placed in the root directory of your project. The root
directory is usually the directory containing your project's `package.json`.

Here's an example:

<CodeBlockHeader filename="rome.json" />

```json
{
  "formatter": {
    "enabled": true,
    "indentStyle": "tab",
    "lineWidth": 120
  },
  "linter": {
    "enabled": false
  }
}
```

This configuration file enables the formatter and sets the preferred indent style and width. The linter is disabled.

## `$schema`

Allows to pass a path to a JSON schema file.

Since version `11.0.0`, a JSON schema file for the `rome.json` is published.

You can specify a relative path to the schema of the `rome` npm package if `rome` is installed in the `node_modules` folder:

<CodeBlockHeader filename="rome.json" />

```json
{
  "$schema": "./node_modules/rome/configuration_schema.json"
}
```

## `files`

### `files.maxSize`

The maximum allowed size for source code files in bytes. Files above
this limit will be ignored for performance reason.

> Default: 1024*1024 (1MB)

 ### `files.ignore`

A list of Unix shell style patterns. Rome ignores files and folders that
match these patterns.

<CodeBlockHeader filename="rome.json" />

```json
{
  "files": {
    "ignore": ["scripts/*.js"]
  }
}
```

## `linter`

### `linter.enabled`

Enables Rome's linter

> Default: `true`

### `linter.ignore`

An array of Unix shell style patterns.

<CodeBlockHeader filename="rome.json" />

```json
{
  "linter": {
    "ignore": ["scripts/*.js"]
  }
}
```

### `linter.rules.recommended`

Enables the [recommended rules](/lint/rules) for all groups.

> Default: `true`


### `linter.rules.all`

Enable or disable all [rules](/lint/rules) for all groups.

If `recommended` and `all` are both `true`, Rome will emit a diagnostic and fallback to its defaults.

<CodeBlockHeader filename="rome.json" />

```json
{
  "linter": {
    "enabled": true,
    "rules": {
      "all": true
    }
  }
}
```

It's also possible to combine this flag to enable/disable different rule groups:

<CodeBlockHeader filename="rome.json" />

```json
{
  "linter": {
    "enabled": true,
    "rules": {
      "all": true,
      "style": {
        "all": false
      },
      "complexity": {
        "all": false
      }
    }
  }
}
```

In the previous example, Rome will enable all rules, exception for rules that belong to the `style` and `complexity` groups.


### `linter.rules.[group]`

Options that influence the rules of a single group. Rome supports the following groups:

<LintGroups />

### `linter.rules.[group].recommended`

Enables the recommended rules for a single group.

Example:

<CodeBlockHeader filename="rome.json" />

```json
{
  "linter": {
    "enabled": true,
    "rules": {
      "nursery": {
        "recommended": true
      }
    }
  }
}
```


### `linter.rules.[group].all`

Enables all rules for a single group.

Example:

<CodeBlockHeader filename="rome.json" />

```json
{
  "linter": {
    "enabled": true,
    "rules": {
      "nursery": {
        "all": true
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## `formatter`

These options apply to all languages.  There are additional language-specific formatting options below.

### `formatter.enabled`

Enables Rome's formatter

> Default: `true`

### `formatter.ignore`

An array of Unix shell style patterns.

<CodeBlockHeader filename="rome.json" />

```json
{
  "formatter": {
    "ignore": ["scripts/*.js"]
  }
}
```

### `formatter.formatWithErrors`

Allows to format a document that has syntax errors.

<CodeBlockHeader filename="rome.json" />

```json
{
  "formatter": {
    "formatWithErrors": true
  }
}
```

> Default: `false`

### `formatter.indentStyle`

The style of the indentation. It can be `"tab"` or `"space"`.

> Default: `tab`

Rome's default is `"tab"`.

### `formatter.indentSize`

How big the indentation should be.

> Default: `2`

### `formatter.lineWidth`

How many characters can be written on a single line.

> Default: `80`

## `organizeImports`

### `organizeImports.enabled` (experimental)

Enables Rome's sort imports.

> Default: `false`

## `javascript`

These options apply only to JavaScript (and TypeScript) files.

### `javascript.formatter.quoteStyle`

The type of quote used when representing string literals. It can be `single` or `double`.

> Default: `double`

### `javascript.formatter.quoteProperties`

When properties inside objects should be quoted. It can be `asNeeded` or `preserve`.

> Default: `asNeeded`

### `javascript.formatter.trailingComma`

Print trailing commas wherever possible in multi-line comma-separated syntactic structures. Possible values:
- `all`, the trailing comma is always added
- `es5`, the trailing comma is added only in places where it's supported by older version of JavaScript
- `none`, trailing commas are never added

> Default: `all`

### `javascript.formatter.semicolons`

It configures where the formatter prints semicolons:
- `always`, the semicolons is always added at the end of each statement;
- `asNeeded`, the semicolons are added only in places where it's needed, to protect from [ASI](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/JavaScript/Automatic_semicolon_insertion)

> Default: `always`

Example:

<CodeBlockHeader filename="rome.json" />

```json
{
  "javascript": {
    "formatter": {
      "semicolons": "asNeeded"
    }
  }
}
```

Commit message:

highlight the auto discovery feature

website/src/pages/configuration.mdx, after:

---
title: Configuration
emoji: ⚙️
category: reference
description: How to customize and configure Rome with rome.json.
---

import LintGroups from "/components/reference/Groups.astro";
import CodeBlockHeader from "/components/CodeBlockHeader.astro";

{/** Make sure to update the redirect in `static/_redirects` when changing the configuration title --> **/}

# Configuration

Using configuration is considered **optional**, Rome has good defaults. Use the configuration to change those defaults.

The Rome configuration file is named `rome.json` and should be placed in the root directory of your project. The root
directory is usually the directory containing your project's `package.json`.

Rome will try to auto discover a `rome.json` configuration file by default, you do not need to set a path to it.

Here's an example:

<CodeBlockHeader filename="rome.json" />

```json
{
  "formatter": {
    "enabled": true,
    "indentStyle": "tab",
    "lineWidth": 120
  },
  "linter": {
    "enabled": false
  }
}
```

This configuration file enables the formatter and sets the preferred indent style and width. The linter is disabled.

## `$schema`

Allows to pass a path to a JSON schema file.

Since version `11.0.0`, a JSON schema file for the `rome.json` is published.

You can specify a relative path to the schema of the `rome` npm package if `rome` is installed in the `node_modules` folder:

<CodeBlockHeader filename="rome.json" />

```json
{
  "$schema": "./node_modules/rome/configuration_schema.json"
}
```

## `files`

### `files.maxSize`

The maximum allowed size for source code files in bytes. Files above
this limit will be ignored for performance reason.

> Default: 1024*1024 (1MB)

 ### `files.ignore`

A list of Unix shell style patterns. Rome ignores files and folders that
match these patterns.

<CodeBlockHeader filename="rome.json" />

```json
{
  "files": {
    "ignore": ["scripts/*.js"]
  }
}
```

## `linter`

### `linter.enabled`

Enables Rome's linter

> Default: `true`

### `linter.ignore`

An array of Unix shell style patterns.

<CodeBlockHeader filename="rome.json" />

```json
{
  "linter": {
    "ignore": ["scripts/*.js"]
  }
}
```

### `linter.rules.recommended`

Enables the [recommended rules](/lint/rules) for all groups.

> Default: `true`


### `linter.rules.all`

Enable or disable all [rules](/lint/rules) for all groups.

If `recommended` and `all` are both `true`, Rome will emit a diagnostic and fallback to its defaults.

<CodeBlockHeader filename="rome.json" />

```json
{
  "linter": {
    "enabled": true,
    "rules": {
      "all": true
    }
  }
}
```

It's also possible to combine this flag to enable/disable different rule groups:

<CodeBlockHeader filename="rome.json" />

```json
{
  "linter": {
    "enabled": true,
    "rules": {
      "all": true,
      "style": {
        "all": false
      },
      "complexity": {
        "all": false
      }
    }
  }
}
```

In the previous example, Rome will enable all rules, exception for rules that belong to the `style` and `complexity` groups.


### `linter.rules.[group]`

Options that influence the rules of a single group. Rome supports the following groups:

<LintGroups />

### `linter.rules.[group].recommended`

Enables the recommended rules for a single group.

Example:

<CodeBlockHeader filename="rome.json" />

```json
{
  "linter": {
    "enabled": true,
    "rules": {
      "nursery": {
        "recommended": true
      }
    }
  }
}
```


### `linter.rules.[group].all`

Enables all rules for a single group.

Example:

<CodeBlockHeader filename="rome.json" />

```json
{
  "linter": {
    "enabled": true,
    "rules": {
      "nursery": {
        "all": true
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## `formatter`

These options apply to all languages.  There are additional language-specific formatting options below.

### `formatter.enabled`

Enables Rome's formatter

> Default: `true`

### `formatter.ignore`

An array of Unix shell style patterns.

<CodeBlockHeader filename="rome.json" />

```json
{
  "formatter": {
    "ignore": ["scripts/*.js"]
  }
}
```

### `formatter.formatWithErrors`

Allows to format a document that has syntax errors.

<CodeBlockHeader filename="rome.json" />

```json
{
  "formatter": {
    "formatWithErrors": true
  }
}
```

> Default: `false`

### `formatter.indentStyle`

The style of the indentation. It can be `"tab"` or `"space"`.

> Default: `tab`

Rome's default is `"tab"`.

### `formatter.indentSize`

How big the indentation should be.

> Default: `2`

### `formatter.lineWidth`

How many characters can be written on a single line.

> Default: `80`

## `organizeImports`

### `organizeImports.enabled` (experimental)

Enables Rome's sort imports.

> Default: `false`

## `javascript`

These options apply only to JavaScript (and TypeScript) files.

### `javascript.formatter.quoteStyle`

The type of quote used when representing string literals. It can be `single` or `double`.

> Default: `double`

### `javascript.formatter.quoteProperties`

When properties inside objects should be quoted. It can be `asNeeded` or `preserve`.

> Default: `asNeeded`

### `javascript.formatter.trailingComma`

Print trailing commas wherever possible in multi-line comma-separated syntactic structures. Possible values:
- `all`, the trailing comma is always added
- `es5`, the trailing comma is added only in places where it's supported by older version of JavaScript
- `none`, trailing commas are never added

> Default: `all`

### `javascript.formatter.semicolons`

It configures where the formatter prints semicolons:
- `always`, the semicolons is always added at the end of each statement;
- `asNeeded`, the semicolons are added only in places where it's needed, to protect from [ASI](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/JavaScript/Automatic_semicolon_insertion)

> Default: `always`

Example:

<CodeBlockHeader filename="rome.json" />

```json
{
  "javascript": {
    "formatter": {
      "semicolons": "asNeeded"
    }
  }
}
```
