website/src/pages/formatter/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Formatter
emoji: 🖌️
category: tools
description: How to use the Rome formatter.
---

import PackageManagerRomeCommand from "/components/PackageManagerRomeCommand.astro";

# Formatter

Rome's an opinionated formatter that has the goal to stop all ongoing debates over styles. It follows a similar [philosophy to Prettier](https://prettier.io/docs/en/option-philosophy.html), only supporting
few options to avoid that debates over styles turn into debates over Rome options. It deliberately [resists the urge to add new options](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/issues/40) to prevent [bike-shed discussions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Law_of_triviality) in teams so they can focus on what really matters instead.

## Options

The language agnostic options supported by Rome are:

- indent style (default: `tab`): Use spaces or tabs for indention
- tab width (default: `2`): The number of spaces per indention level
- line width (default: `80`): The column width at which Rome wraps code

## Use the formatter with the CLI

You can start by running the CLI with the `--help` flag:

<PackageManagerRomeCommand command="format --help" />

Which will show you the options available at the moment:

```plaintext
Rome Formatter

USAGE:
    rome format [OPTIONS] <INPUTS...>

    INPUTS can be one or more filesystem path, each pointing to a single file or an entire directory to be searched recursively for supported files

OPTIONS:
    --write                                  Edit the files in place (beware!) instead of printing the diff to the console
    --skip-errors                            Skip over files containing syntax errors instead of emitting an error diagnostic.
    --indent-style <tab|space>               Change the indention character (default: tab)
    --indent-size <number>                   If the indentation style is set to spaces, determine how many spaces should be used for indentation (default: 2)
    --line-width <number>                    Change how many characters the formatter is allowed to print in a single line (default: 80)
    --quote-style <single|double>            Changes the quotation character for strings (default: ")
    --quote-properties <as-needed|preserve>  Changes when properties in object should be quoted (default: as-needed)
    --trailing-comma <all|es5|none>          Changes trailing commas in multi-line comma-separated syntactic structures (default: all)
    --stdin-file-path <string>               A file name with its extension to pass when reading from standard in, e.g. echo 'let a;' | rome format --stdin-file-path file.js
```

## Ignoring Code

There are times when the way we format code might not be ideal. For these cases you can use a format suppression comment:

```js
// rome-ignore format: <explanation>
```

Example:

```js
const expr =
  // rome-ignore format: the array should not be formatted
  [
    (2 * n) / (r - l),
    0,
    (r + l) / (r - l),
    0,
    0,
    (2 * n) / (t - b),
    (t + b) / (t - b),
    0,
    0,
    0,
    -(f + n) / (f - n),
    -(2 * f * n) / (f - n),
    0,
    0,
    -1,
    0,
  ];
```

Commit message:

Add notes about language-specific config (#3730)
Co-authored-by: Micha Reiser <micha@reiser.io>

website/src/pages/formatter/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Formatter
emoji: 🖌️
category: tools
description: How to use the Rome formatter.
---

import PackageManagerRomeCommand from "/components/PackageManagerRomeCommand.astro";

# Formatter

Rome's an opinionated formatter that has the goal to stop all ongoing debates over styles. It follows a similar [philosophy to Prettier](https://prettier.io/docs/en/option-philosophy.html), only supporting
few options to avoid that debates over styles turn into debates over Rome options. It deliberately [resists the urge to add new options](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/issues/40) to prevent [bike-shed discussions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Law_of_triviality) in teams so they can focus on what really matters instead.

## Options

The language agnostic options supported by Rome are:

- indent style (default: `tab`): Use spaces or tabs for indention
- tab width (default: `2`): The number of spaces per indention level
- line width (default: `80`): The column width at which Rome wraps code

Other formatting options are available for specific languages as well.  See the [configuration](/configuration) options for details.

## Use the formatter with the CLI

You can start by running the CLI with the `--help` flag:

<PackageManagerRomeCommand command="format --help" />

Which will show you the options available at the moment:

```plaintext
Rome Formatter

USAGE:
    rome format [OPTIONS] <INPUTS...>

    INPUTS can be one or more filesystem path, each pointing to a single file or an entire directory to be searched recursively for supported files

OPTIONS:
    --write                                  Edit the files in place (beware!) instead of printing the diff to the console
    --skip-errors                            Skip over files containing syntax errors instead of emitting an error diagnostic.
    --indent-style <tab|space>               Change the indention character (default: tab)
    --indent-size <number>                   If the indentation style is set to spaces, determine how many spaces should be used for indentation (default: 2)
    --line-width <number>                    Change how many characters the formatter is allowed to print in a single line (default: 80)
    --quote-style <single|double>            Changes the quotation character for strings (default: ")
    --quote-properties <as-needed|preserve>  Changes when properties in object should be quoted (default: as-needed)
    --trailing-comma <all|es5|none>          Changes trailing commas in multi-line comma-separated syntactic structures (default: all)
    --stdin-file-path <string>               A file name with its extension to pass when reading from standard in, e.g. echo 'let a;' | rome format --stdin-file-path file.js
```

## Ignoring Code

There are times when the way we format code might not be ideal. For these cases you can use a format suppression comment:

```js
// rome-ignore format: <explanation>
```

Example:

```js
const expr =
  // rome-ignore format: the array should not be formatted
  [
    (2 * n) / (r - l),
    0,
    (r + l) / (r - l),
    0,
    0,
    (2 * n) / (t - b),
    (t + b) / (t - b),
    0,
    0,
    0,
    -(f + n) / (f - n),
    -(2 * f * n) / (f - n),
    0,
    0,
    -1,
    0,
  ];
```
