crates/rome_analyze/CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Analyzer

The analyzer is a generic crate aimed to implement a visitor-like infrastructure, where
it's possible to inspect a piece of AST and emit diagnostics or actions based on a
static check.

## Folder structure

First, you need to identify the crate where you want to implement the rule.
If the rule is going to be implemented for the JavaScript language (and its super languages),
then the rule will be implemented inside the `rome_js_analyze` crate.

Rules are divided by capabilities:

- `analyzers/` folder contains rules that don't require any particular capabilities, via the `Ast<>` query type;

- `semantic_analyzer/` folder contains rules that require the use of the semantic model, via `Semantic<>` query type;

- `aria_analyzers/` folder contains rules that require the use of ARIA metadata, via `Aria<>` query type;

- `assists/` folder contains rules that contribute to refactor code, with not associated diagnostics.
  These are rules that are usually meant for editors and IDEs.

Most of the rules will go under `analyzers/` or `semantic_analyzer/`.

Inside these four folders, we have a folder for each group that _Rome_ supports.

When implementing **new rules**, they have to be implemented under the group `nursery`.
New rules should always be considered unstable/not exhaustive.

In addition to selecting a group, rules may be flagged as `recommended`.
The **recommended rules** are enabled in the default configuration of the _Rome_ linter.
As a general principle, a recommended rule should catch actual programming errors.
For instance, detecting a coding pattern that will throw an exception at runtime.
Pedantic rules that check for specific unwanted patterns but may have high false positive rates,
should be left off from the recommended set.
Rules intended to be recommended should be flagged as such even if they are still part of the `nursery` group,
as unstable rules are only enabled by default on unstable builds.
This gives the project time to test the rule, find edge cases, etc.

## Lint rules

When creating or updating a lint rule, you need to be aware that there's a lot of generated code inside our toolchain.
Our CI ensures that this code is not out of sync and fails otherwise.
See the [code generation section](#code-generation) for more details.

To create a new rule, you have to create and update several files.
Because it is a bit tedious, _Rome_ provides an easy way to create and test your rule using [Just](https://just.systems/man/en/).
_Just_ is not part of the rust toolchain, you have to install it with [a package manager](https://just.systems/man/en/chapter_4.html).

### Choose a name

_Rome_ follows a naming convention according to what the rule do:

1. Forbid a concept

   ```block
   no<Concept>
   ```

   When a rule's sole intention is to **forbid a single concept** - such as disallowing the use of `debugger` statements - the rule should be named using the `no` prefix.
   For example, the rule to disallow the use of `debugger` statements is named `noDebugger`.

1. Mandate a concept

   ```block
   use<Concept>
   ```

   When a rule's sole intention is to **mandate a single concept** - such as forcing the use of camel-casing - the rule should be named using the `use` prefix.
   For example, the rule to mandating the use of camel-cased variable names is named `useCamelCase`.

### Create and implement the rule

Let's say we want to create a new rule called `myRuleName`, which uses the semantic model.

1. Run the command

   ```shell
   > just new-lintrule crates/rome_js_analyze/src/semantic_analyzers/nursery myRuleName
   ```

   Rules go in different folders, and the folder depend on the type of query system your rule
   will use:

   - `type Query = Ast<>` -> `analyzers/` folder
   - `type Query = Semantic<>` -> `semantic_analyzers/` folder
   - `type Query = SemanticServices` -> `semantic_analyzers/` folder
   - `type Query = Aria<>` -> `aria_analyzers` folder
   - `type Query = ControlFlowGraph` -> `analyzers/` folder
 
   The core team will help you out if you don't get the folder right.
   Using the incorrect folder won't break any code.

2. The `Query` needs to have the `Semantic` type, because we want to have access to the semantic model.
   `Query` tells the engine on which AST node we want to trigger the rule.

3. The `State` type doesn't have to be used, so it can be considered optional.
   However, it has to be defined as `type State = ()`.

4. Implement the `run` function:

   This function is called every time the analyzer finds a match for the query specified by the rule,
   and may return zero or more "signals".

5. Implement the `diagnostic` function, to tell the user where's the error and why:

   ```rust,ignore
   impl Rule for UseAwesomeTricks {
       // .. code
       fn diagnostic(_ctx: &RuleContext<Self>, _state: &Self::State) -> Option<RuleDiagnostic> {}
   }
   ```

   While implementing the diagnostic, please keep [Rome's technical principals](https://rome.tools/#technical) in mind.
   This function is called for every signal emitted by the `run` function, and it may return
   zero or one diagnostic.

6. Implement the optional `action` function, if we are able to provide automatic code fix to the rule:

   ```rust,ignore
   impl Rule for UseAwesomeTricks {
       // .. code
       fn action(_ctx: &RuleContext<Self>, _state: &Self::State) -> Option<JsRuleAction> {}
   }
   ```

   This function is called for every signal emitted by the `run` function.
   It may return zero or one code action.
   When returning a code action, you must pass the `category` and the `applicability` fields.
   `category` must be `ActionCategory::QuickFix`.
   `applicability` is either `Applicability:MaybeIncorrect` or `Applicability:Always`.
   `Applicability:Always` must only be used when the code transformation is safe.
   In other words, the code transformation should always result in code that does no change the behavior of the code.
   In the case of `noVar`, it is not always safe to turn `var` to `const` or `let`.

Don't forget to format your code with `cargo format` and lint with `cargo lint`.

That's it! Now, let's test the rule.

### Test the rule

Inside the `tests/specs/` folder, rules are divided by group and rule name.
The test infrastructure is rigid around the association of the pair "group/rule name", which means that
_**your test cases are placed inside the wrong group, you won't see any diagnostics**_.

Since each new rule will start from `nursery`, that's where we start.
If you used `just new-lintrule`, a folder that use the name of the rule should exist.
Otherwise, create a folder called `myRuleName/`, and then create one or more files where you want to create different cases.

A common pattern is to create files prefixed by `invalid` or `valid`.
The files prefixed by `invalid` contain code that are reported by the rule.
The files prefixed by `valid` contain code that are not reported by the rule.

Files ending with the extension `.jsonc` are differently handled.
These files should contain an array of strings where each string is a code snippet.
For instance, for the rule `noVar`, the file `invalidScript.jsonc` contains:

```jsonc
[
	"var x = 1; foo(x);",
	"for (var x of [1,2,3]) { foo(x); }",
]
```

Note that code in a file ending with the extension `.jsonc` are in a _script environment_.
This means that you cannot use syntax that belongs to _ECMAScript modules_ such as `import` and `export`.

Run the command `just test-lintrule myRuleName` and if you've done everything correctly,
you should see some snapshots emitted with diagnostics and code actions.

Check our main [contribution document](https://github.com/rome/tools/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#snapshot-tests)
to know how to deal with the snapshot tests.

### Document the rule

The doc-comment for the rule is mandatory and is used to generate the
documentation page for the rule on the website.
Importantly, the tool used to generate those pages also runs tests on the
code blocks included in the documentation written in languages supported by
the _Rome_ toolchain (JavaScript, JSX, TypeScript, ...) similar to how
`rustdoc` generates tests from code blocks written in Rust. Because code
blocks in Rust doc-comments are assumed to be written in Rust by default
the language of the test must be explicitly specified, for instance:

```rust,ignore
use rome_analyze::declare_rule;
declare_rule! {
    /// Disallow the use of `var`.
    ///
    /// _ES2015_ allows to create variables with block scope instead of function scope
    /// using the `let` and `const` keywords.
    /// Block scope is common in many other programming languages and help to avoid mistakes.
    ///
    /// Source: https://eslint.org/docs/latest/rules/no-var
    ///
    /// ## Examples
    ///
    /// ### Invalid
    ///
    /// ```js,expect_diagnostic
    /// var foo = 1;
    /// ```
    ///
    /// ### Valid
    ///
    /// ```js
    /// const foo = 1;
    /// let bar = 1;
    ///```
    pub(crate) NoVar {
        version: "next",
        name: "noVar",
        recommended: false,
    }
}
```

Additionally, it's possible to declare that a test should emit a diagnostic
by adding `expect_diagnostic` to the language metadata:

```rust,ignore
use rome_analyze::declare_rule;
 declare_rule! {
    ///  Disallow the use of `var`.
    ///
    /// ## Examples
    ///
    /// ### Invalid
    ///
    /// ```js,expect_diagnostic
    /// var foo = 1;
    /// ```
    pub(crate) NoVar {
        version: "next",
        name: "noVar",
        recommended: false,
    }
 }
 ```

This will cause the documentation generator to ensure the rule does emit
exactly one diagnostic for this code, and to include a snapshot for the
diagnostic in the resulting documentation page.

### Code generation

For simplicity, use [`just`](#using-just) to run all the commands with:

```shell
just codegen-linter
```

This command runs several sub-commands:

- `cargo codegen-configuration`, **this command must be run first** and, it will update the configuration;

- `cargo lintdoc`, it will update the website with the documentation of the rules, check [`declare_rule`](#declare_rule)
for more information about it;

- `cargo codegen-bindings`, it will update the TypeScript types released inside the JS APIs;

- `cargo codegen-schema`, it will update the JSON Schema file of the configuration, used by VSCode.

### Commit your work

Once the rule implemented, tested, and documented, you are ready to open a pull request!

Stage and commit your changes:

```shell
> git add -A
> git commit -m 'feat(rome_js_analyze): myRuleName'
```

To test if everything is ready, run the following command:

```shell
> just check-ready
```

### Rule configuration

Some rules may allow customization using configuration.
The first step is to setup a struct to represent the rule configuration.

```rust,ignore
#[derive(Debug, Clone, Serialize, Deserialize)]
pub struct ReactExtensiveDependenciesOptions {
    hooks_config: HashMap<String, ReactHookConfiguration>,
    stable_config: HashSet<StableReactHookConfiguration>,
}

impl Rule for UseExhaustiveDependencies {
    type Query = Semantic<JsCallExpression>;
    type State = Fix;
    type Signals = Vec<Self::State>;
    type Options = ReactExtensiveDependenciesOptions;

    ...
}
```

This allows the rule to be configured inside `rome.json` file like:

```json
{
    "linter": {
        "rules": {
            "recommended": true,
            "nursery": {
                "useExhaustiveDependencies": {
                    "level": "error",
                    "options": {
                        "hooks": [
                            ["useMyEffect", 0, 1]
                        ]
                    }
                }
            }
        },
    }
}
```

In this specific case, we don't want the configuration to replace all the standard React hooks configuration,
so to have more control on the deserialization of options, we can implement the trait `DeserializableRuleOptions`.

In the example below we also deserialize to a struct with a more user-friendly schema.

This code run only once when the analyzer is first called.

```rust,ignore

impl DeserializableRuleOptions for ReactExtensiveDependenciesOptions {
    fn try_from(value: serde_json::Value) -> Result<Self, serde_json::Error> {
        #[derive(Debug, Deserialize)]
        #[serde(deny_unknown_fields)]
        struct Options {
            #[serde(default)]
            hooks: Vec<(String, usize, usize)>,
            #[serde(default)]
            stables: HashSet<StableReactHookConfiguration>,
        }

        let options: Options = serde_json::from_value(value)?;

        let mut default = ReactExtensiveDependenciesOptions::default();
        for (k, closure_index, dependencies_index) in options.hooks.into_iter() {
            default.hooks_config.insert(
                k,
                ReactHookConfiguration {
                    closure_index,
                    dependencies_index,
                },
            );
        }
        default.stable_config.extend(options.stables.into_iter());

        Ok(default)
    }
}
```

A rule can retrieve its option with:

```rust,ignore
let options = ctx.options();
```

### Deprecate a rule

There are occasions when a rule must be deprecated, to avoid breaking changes. The reason
 of deprecation can be multiple.

In order to do, the macro allows adding additional field to add the reason for deprecation

```rust,ignore
use rome_analyze::declare_rule;

declare_rule! {
    /// Disallow the use of `var`.
    ///
    /// ## Examples
    ///
    /// ### Invalid
    ///
    /// ```js,expect_diagnostic
    /// var a, b;
    /// ```
    pub(crate) NoVar {
        version: "0.7.0",
        name: "noVar",
        deprecated: "Use the rule `noAnotherVar`",
        recommended: false,
    }
}
```

### Custom Visitors

Some lint rules may need to deeply inspect the child nodes of a query match
before deciding on whether they should emit a signal or not. These rules can be
inefficient to implement using the query system, as they will lead to redundant
traversal passes being executed over the same syntax tree. To make this more
efficient, you can implement a custom `Queryable` type and associated
`Visitor` to emit it as part of the analyzer's main traversal pass. As an
example, here's how this could be done to implement the `useYield` rule:

```rust,ignore
// First, create a visitor struct that holds a stack of function syntax nodes and booleans
#[derive(Default)]
struct MissingYieldVisitor {
    stack: Vec<(AnyFunctionLike, bool)>,
}

// Implement the `Visitor` trait for this struct
impl Visitor for MissingYieldVisitor {
    type Language = JsLanguage;

    fn visit(
        &mut self,
        event: &WalkEvent<SyntaxNode<Self::Language>>,
        mut ctx: VisitorContext<Self::Language>,
    ) {
        match event {
            WalkEvent::Enter(node) => {
                // When the visitor enters a function node, push a new entry on the stack
                if let Some(node) = AnyFunctionLike::cast_ref(node) {
                    self.stack.push((node, false));
                }

                if let Some((_, has_yield)) = self.stack.last_mut() {
                    // When the visitor enters a `yield` expression, set the
                    // `has_yield` flag for the top entry on the stack to `true`
                    if JsYieldExpression::can_cast(node.kind()) {
                        *has_yield = true;
                    }
                }
            }
            WalkEvent::Leave(node) => {
                // When the visitor exits a function, if it matches the node of the top-most
                // entry of the stack and the `has_yield` flag is `false`, emit a query match
                if let Some(exit_node) = AnyFunctionLike::cast_ref(node) {
                    if let Some((enter_node, has_yield)) = self.stack.pop() {
                        assert_eq!(enter_node, exit_node);
                        if !has_yield {
                            ctx.match_query(MissingYield(enter_node));
                        }
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
}

// Declare a query match struct type containing a JavaScript function node
pub(crate) struct MissingYield(AnyFunctionLike);

impl QueryMatch for MissingYield {
    fn text_range(&self) -> TextRange {
        self.0.range()
    }
}

// Implement the `Queryable` trait for this type
impl Queryable for MissingYield {
    // `Input` is the type that `ctx.match_query()` is called with in the visitor
    type Input = Self;
    type Language = JsLanguage;
    // `Output` if the type that `ctx.query()` will return in the rule
    type Output = AnyFunctionLike;
    type Services = ();

    fn build_visitor(
        analyzer: &mut impl AddVisitor<Self::Language>,
        _: &<Self::Language as Language>::Root,
    ) {
        // Register our custom visitor to run in the `Syntax` phase
        analyzer.add_visitor(Phases::Syntax, MissingYieldVisitor::default);
    }

    // Extract the output object from the input type
    fn unwrap_match(services: &ServiceBag, query: &Self::Input) -> Self::Output {
        query.0.clone()
    }
}

impl Rule for UseYield {
    // Declare the custom `MissingYield` queryable as the rule's query
    type Query = MissingYield;

    fn run(ctx: &RuleContext<Self>) -> Self::Signals {
        // Read the function's root node from the queryable output
        let query: &AnyFunctionLike = ctx.query();

        // ...
    }
}
```

### `declare_rule`

This macro is used to declare an analyzer rule type, and implement the [RuleMeta] trait for it.

The macro itself expect the following syntax:

```rust,ignore
use rome_analyze::declare_rule;

declare_rule! {
    /// Documentation
    pub(crate) ExampleRule {
        version: "next",
        name: "myRuleName",
        recommended: false,
    }
}
```

### Category Macro

Declaring a rule using `declare_rule!` will cause a new `rule_category!`
macro to be declared in the surrounding module. This macro can be used to
refer to the corresponding diagnostic category for this lint rule, if it
has one. Using this macro instead of getting the category for a diagnostic
by dynamically parsing its string name has the advantage of statically
injecting the category at compile time and checking that it is correctly
registered to the `rome_diagnostics` library.

```rust,ignore
declare_rule! {
    /// Documentation
    pub(crate) ExampleRule {
        version: "next",
        name: "myRuleName",
        recommended: false,
    }
}

impl Rule for ExampleRule {
    fn diagnostic(ctx: &RuleContext<Self>, _state: &Self::State) -> Option<RuleDiagnostic> {
        Some(RuleDiagnostic::new(
            rule_category!(),
            ctx.query().text_trimmed_range(),
            "message",
        ))
    }
}
```

Commit message:

chore: add script to promote rules (#4419)

crates/rome_analyze/CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Analyzer

The analyzer is a generic crate aimed to implement a visitor-like infrastructure, where
it's possible to inspect a piece of AST and emit diagnostics or actions based on a
static check.

## Folder structure

First, you need to identify the crate where you want to implement the rule.
If the rule is going to be implemented for the JavaScript language (and its super languages),
then the rule will be implemented inside the `rome_js_analyze` crate.

Rules are divided by capabilities:

- `analyzers/` folder contains rules that don't require any particular capabilities, via the `Ast<>` query type;

- `semantic_analyzer/` folder contains rules that require the use of the semantic model, via `Semantic<>` query type;

- `aria_analyzers/` folder contains rules that require the use of ARIA metadata, via `Aria<>` query type;

- `assists/` folder contains rules that contribute to refactor code, with not associated diagnostics.
  These are rules that are usually meant for editors and IDEs.

Most of the rules will go under `analyzers/` or `semantic_analyzer/`.

Inside these four folders, we have a folder for each group that _Rome_ supports.

When implementing **new rules**, they have to be implemented under the group `nursery`.
New rules should always be considered unstable/not exhaustive.

In addition to selecting a group, rules may be flagged as `recommended`.
The **recommended rules** are enabled in the default configuration of the _Rome_ linter.
As a general principle, a recommended rule should catch actual programming errors.
For instance, detecting a coding pattern that will throw an exception at runtime.
Pedantic rules that check for specific unwanted patterns but may have high false positive rates,
should be left off from the recommended set.
Rules intended to be recommended should be flagged as such even if they are still part of the `nursery` group,
as unstable rules are only enabled by default on unstable builds.
This gives the project time to test the rule, find edge cases, etc.

## Lint rules

When creating or updating a lint rule, you need to be aware that there's a lot of generated code inside our toolchain.
Our CI ensures that this code is not out of sync and fails otherwise.
See the [code generation section](#code-generation) for more details.

To create a new rule, you have to create and update several files.
Because it is a bit tedious, _Rome_ provides an easy way to create and test your rule using [Just](https://just.systems/man/en/).
_Just_ is not part of the rust toolchain, you have to install it with [a package manager](https://just.systems/man/en/chapter_4.html).

### Choose a name

_Rome_ follows a naming convention according to what the rule do:

1. Forbid a concept

   ```block
   no<Concept>
   ```

   When a rule's sole intention is to **forbid a single concept** - such as disallowing the use of `debugger` statements - the rule should be named using the `no` prefix.
   For example, the rule to disallow the use of `debugger` statements is named `noDebugger`.

1. Mandate a concept

   ```block
   use<Concept>
   ```

   When a rule's sole intention is to **mandate a single concept** - such as forcing the use of camel-casing - the rule should be named using the `use` prefix.
   For example, the rule to mandating the use of camel-cased variable names is named `useCamelCase`.

### Create and implement the rule

Let's say we want to create a new rule called `myRuleName`, which uses the semantic model.

1. Run the command

   ```shell
   just new-lintrule crates/rome_js_analyze/src/semantic_analyzers/nursery myRuleName
   ```

   Rules go in different folders, and the folder depend on the type of query system your rule
   will use:

   - `type Query = Ast<>` -> `analyzers/` folder
   - `type Query = Semantic<>` -> `semantic_analyzers/` folder
   - `type Query = SemanticServices` -> `semantic_analyzers/` folder
   - `type Query = Aria<>` -> `aria_analyzers` folder
   - `type Query = ControlFlowGraph` -> `analyzers/` folder

   The core team will help you out if you don't get the folder right.
   Using the incorrect folder won't break any code.

2. The `Query` needs to have the `Semantic` type, because we want to have access to the semantic model.
   `Query` tells the engine on which AST node we want to trigger the rule.

3. The `State` type doesn't have to be used, so it can be considered optional.
   However, it has to be defined as `type State = ()`.

4. Implement the `run` function:

   This function is called every time the analyzer finds a match for the query specified by the rule,
   and may return zero or more "signals".

5. Implement the `diagnostic` function, to tell the user where's the error and why:

   ```rust,ignore
   impl Rule for UseAwesomeTricks {
       // .. code
       fn diagnostic(_ctx: &RuleContext<Self>, _state: &Self::State) -> Option<RuleDiagnostic> {}
   }
   ```

   While implementing the diagnostic, please keep [Rome's technical principals](https://rome.tools/#technical) in mind.
   This function is called for every signal emitted by the `run` function, and it may return
   zero or one diagnostic.

6. Implement the optional `action` function, if we are able to provide automatic code fix to the rule:

   ```rust,ignore
   impl Rule for UseAwesomeTricks {
       // .. code
       fn action(_ctx: &RuleContext<Self>, _state: &Self::State) -> Option<JsRuleAction> {}
   }
   ```

   This function is called for every signal emitted by the `run` function.
   It may return zero or one code action.
   When returning a code action, you must pass the `category` and the `applicability` fields.
   `category` must be `ActionCategory::QuickFix`.
   `applicability` is either `Applicability:MaybeIncorrect` or `Applicability:Always`.
   `Applicability:Always` must only be used when the code transformation is safe.
   In other words, the code transformation should always result in code that does no change the behavior of the code.
   In the case of `noVar`, it is not always safe to turn `var` to `const` or `let`.

Don't forget to format your code with `cargo format` and lint with `cargo lint`.

That's it! Now, let's test the rule.

### Test the rule

Inside the `tests/specs/` folder, rules are divided by group and rule name.
The test infrastructure is rigid around the association of the pair "group/rule name", which means that
_**your test cases are placed inside the wrong group, you won't see any diagnostics**_.

Since each new rule will start from `nursery`, that's where we start.
If you used `just new-lintrule`, a folder that use the name of the rule should exist.
Otherwise, create a folder called `myRuleName/`, and then create one or more files where you want to create different cases.

A common pattern is to create files prefixed by `invalid` or `valid`.
The files prefixed by `invalid` contain code that are reported by the rule.
The files prefixed by `valid` contain code that are not reported by the rule.

Files ending with the extension `.jsonc` are differently handled.
These files should contain an array of strings where each string is a code snippet.
For instance, for the rule `noVar`, the file `invalidScript.jsonc` contains:

```jsonc
[
	"var x = 1; foo(x);",
	"for (var x of [1,2,3]) { foo(x); }",
]
```

Note that code in a file ending with the extension `.jsonc` are in a _script environment_.
This means that you cannot use syntax that belongs to _ECMAScript modules_ such as `import` and `export`.

Run the command
```shell
just test-lintrule myRuleName
```
 and if you've done everything correctly,
you should see some snapshots emitted with diagnostics and code actions.

Check our main [contribution document](https://github.com/rome/tools/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#snapshot-tests)
to know how to deal with the snapshot tests.

### Promote a rule

Promoting a rule when is stable can be a tedious work. Internally, we have a script
that does that for you:

```shell
just promote-rule noConsoleLog style
```

The first argument is the name of the rule, in camel case. The second argument
is the name of the group where you're promoting the rule to.

The script will run some checks and some other script for you.

You're now ready to commit the changes [using `git`](#commit-your-work)!

### Document the rule

The doc-comment for the rule is mandatory and is used to generate the
documentation page for the rule on the website.
Importantly, the tool used to generate those pages also runs tests on the
code blocks included in the documentation written in languages supported by
the _Rome_ toolchain (JavaScript, JSX, TypeScript, ...) similar to how
`rustdoc` generates tests from code blocks written in Rust. Because code
blocks in Rust doc-comments are assumed to be written in Rust by default
the language of the test must be explicitly specified, for instance:

```rust,ignore
use rome_analyze::declare_rule;
declare_rule! {
    /// Disallow the use of `var`.
    ///
    /// _ES2015_ allows to create variables with block scope instead of function scope
    /// using the `let` and `const` keywords.
    /// Block scope is common in many other programming languages and help to avoid mistakes.
    ///
    /// Source: https://eslint.org/docs/latest/rules/no-var
    ///
    /// ## Examples
    ///
    /// ### Invalid
    ///
    /// ```js,expect_diagnostic
    /// var foo = 1;
    /// ```
    ///
    /// ### Valid
    ///
    /// ```js
    /// const foo = 1;
    /// let bar = 1;
    ///```
    pub(crate) NoVar {
        version: "next",
        name: "noVar",
        recommended: false,
    }
}
```

Additionally, it's possible to declare that a test should emit a diagnostic
by adding `expect_diagnostic` to the language metadata:

```rust,ignore
use rome_analyze::declare_rule;
 declare_rule! {
    ///  Disallow the use of `var`.
    ///
    /// ## Examples
    ///
    /// ### Invalid
    ///
    /// ```js,expect_diagnostic
    /// var foo = 1;
    /// ```
    pub(crate) NoVar {
        version: "next",
        name: "noVar",
        recommended: false,
    }
 }
 ```

This will cause the documentation generator to ensure the rule does emit
exactly one diagnostic for this code, and to include a snapshot for the
diagnostic in the resulting documentation page.

### Code generation

For simplicity, use `just` to run all the commands with:

```shell
just codegen-linter
```

This command runs several sub-commands:

- `cargo codegen-configuration`, **this command must be run first** and, it will update the configuration;

- `cargo lintdoc`, it will update the website with the documentation of the rules, check [`declare_rule`](#declare_rule)
for more information about it;

- `cargo codegen-bindings`, it will update the TypeScript types released inside the JS APIs;

- `cargo codegen-schema`, it will update the JSON Schema file of the configuration, used by VSCode.

### Commit your work

Once the rule implemented, tested, and documented, you are ready to open a pull request!

Stage and commit your changes:

```shell
> git add -A
> git commit -m 'feat(rome_js_analyze): myRuleName'
```

To test if everything is ready, run the following command:

```shell
> just check-ready
```

### Rule configuration

Some rules may allow customization using configuration.
The first step is to setup a struct to represent the rule configuration.

```rust,ignore
#[derive(Debug, Clone, Serialize, Deserialize)]
pub struct ReactExtensiveDependenciesOptions {
    hooks_config: HashMap<String, ReactHookConfiguration>,
    stable_config: HashSet<StableReactHookConfiguration>,
}

impl Rule for UseExhaustiveDependencies {
    type Query = Semantic<JsCallExpression>;
    type State = Fix;
    type Signals = Vec<Self::State>;
    type Options = ReactExtensiveDependenciesOptions;

    ...
}
```

This allows the rule to be configured inside `rome.json` file like:

```json
{
    "linter": {
        "rules": {
            "recommended": true,
            "nursery": {
                "useExhaustiveDependencies": {
                    "level": "error",
                    "options": {
                        "hooks": [
                            ["useMyEffect", 0, 1]
                        ]
                    }
                }
            }
        },
    }
}
```

In this specific case, we don't want the configuration to replace all the standard React hooks configuration,
so to have more control on the deserialization of options, we can implement the trait `DeserializableRuleOptions`.

In the example below we also deserialize to a struct with a more user-friendly schema.

This code run only once when the analyzer is first called.

```rust,ignore

impl DeserializableRuleOptions for ReactExtensiveDependenciesOptions {
    fn try_from(value: serde_json::Value) -> Result<Self, serde_json::Error> {
        #[derive(Debug, Deserialize)]
        #[serde(deny_unknown_fields)]
        struct Options {
            #[serde(default)]
            hooks: Vec<(String, usize, usize)>,
            #[serde(default)]
            stables: HashSet<StableReactHookConfiguration>,
        }

        let options: Options = serde_json::from_value(value)?;

        let mut default = ReactExtensiveDependenciesOptions::default();
        for (k, closure_index, dependencies_index) in options.hooks.into_iter() {
            default.hooks_config.insert(
                k,
                ReactHookConfiguration {
                    closure_index,
                    dependencies_index,
                },
            );
        }
        default.stable_config.extend(options.stables.into_iter());

        Ok(default)
    }
}
```

A rule can retrieve its option with:

```rust,ignore
let options = ctx.options();
```

### Deprecate a rule

There are occasions when a rule must be deprecated, to avoid breaking changes. The reason
 of deprecation can be multiple.

In order to do, the macro allows adding additional field to add the reason for deprecation

```rust,ignore
use rome_analyze::declare_rule;

declare_rule! {
    /// Disallow the use of `var`.
    ///
    /// ## Examples
    ///
    /// ### Invalid
    ///
    /// ```js,expect_diagnostic
    /// var a, b;
    /// ```
    pub(crate) NoVar {
        version: "0.7.0",
        name: "noVar",
        deprecated: "Use the rule `noAnotherVar`",
        recommended: false,
    }
}
```

### Custom Visitors

Some lint rules may need to deeply inspect the child nodes of a query match
before deciding on whether they should emit a signal or not. These rules can be
inefficient to implement using the query system, as they will lead to redundant
traversal passes being executed over the same syntax tree. To make this more
efficient, you can implement a custom `Queryable` type and associated
`Visitor` to emit it as part of the analyzer's main traversal pass. As an
example, here's how this could be done to implement the `useYield` rule:

```rust,ignore
// First, create a visitor struct that holds a stack of function syntax nodes and booleans
#[derive(Default)]
struct MissingYieldVisitor {
    stack: Vec<(AnyFunctionLike, bool)>,
}

// Implement the `Visitor` trait for this struct
impl Visitor for MissingYieldVisitor {
    type Language = JsLanguage;

    fn visit(
        &mut self,
        event: &WalkEvent<SyntaxNode<Self::Language>>,
        mut ctx: VisitorContext<Self::Language>,
    ) {
        match event {
            WalkEvent::Enter(node) => {
                // When the visitor enters a function node, push a new entry on the stack
                if let Some(node) = AnyFunctionLike::cast_ref(node) {
                    self.stack.push((node, false));
                }

                if let Some((_, has_yield)) = self.stack.last_mut() {
                    // When the visitor enters a `yield` expression, set the
                    // `has_yield` flag for the top entry on the stack to `true`
                    if JsYieldExpression::can_cast(node.kind()) {
                        *has_yield = true;
                    }
                }
            }
            WalkEvent::Leave(node) => {
                // When the visitor exits a function, if it matches the node of the top-most
                // entry of the stack and the `has_yield` flag is `false`, emit a query match
                if let Some(exit_node) = AnyFunctionLike::cast_ref(node) {
                    if let Some((enter_node, has_yield)) = self.stack.pop() {
                        assert_eq!(enter_node, exit_node);
                        if !has_yield {
                            ctx.match_query(MissingYield(enter_node));
                        }
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
}

// Declare a query match struct type containing a JavaScript function node
pub(crate) struct MissingYield(AnyFunctionLike);

impl QueryMatch for MissingYield {
    fn text_range(&self) -> TextRange {
        self.0.range()
    }
}

// Implement the `Queryable` trait for this type
impl Queryable for MissingYield {
    // `Input` is the type that `ctx.match_query()` is called with in the visitor
    type Input = Self;
    type Language = JsLanguage;
    // `Output` if the type that `ctx.query()` will return in the rule
    type Output = AnyFunctionLike;
    type Services = ();

    fn build_visitor(
        analyzer: &mut impl AddVisitor<Self::Language>,
        _: &<Self::Language as Language>::Root,
    ) {
        // Register our custom visitor to run in the `Syntax` phase
        analyzer.add_visitor(Phases::Syntax, MissingYieldVisitor::default);
    }

    // Extract the output object from the input type
    fn unwrap_match(services: &ServiceBag, query: &Self::Input) -> Self::Output {
        query.0.clone()
    }
}

impl Rule for UseYield {
    // Declare the custom `MissingYield` queryable as the rule's query
    type Query = MissingYield;

    fn run(ctx: &RuleContext<Self>) -> Self::Signals {
        // Read the function's root node from the queryable output
        let query: &AnyFunctionLike = ctx.query();

        // ...
    }
}
```

### `declare_rule`

This macro is used to declare an analyzer rule type, and implement the [RuleMeta] trait for it.

The macro itself expect the following syntax:

```rust,ignore
use rome_analyze::declare_rule;

declare_rule! {
    /// Documentation
    pub(crate) ExampleRule {
        version: "next",
        name: "myRuleName",
        recommended: false,
    }
}
```

### Category Macro

Declaring a rule using `declare_rule!` will cause a new `rule_category!`
macro to be declared in the surrounding module. This macro can be used to
refer to the corresponding diagnostic category for this lint rule, if it
has one. Using this macro instead of getting the category for a diagnostic
by dynamically parsing its string name has the advantage of statically
injecting the category at compile time and checking that it is correctly
registered to the `rome_diagnostics` library.

```rust,ignore
declare_rule! {
    /// Documentation
    pub(crate) ExampleRule {
        version: "next",
        name: "myRuleName",
        recommended: false,
    }
}

impl Rule for ExampleRule {
    fn diagnostic(ctx: &RuleContext<Self>, _state: &Self::State) -> Option<RuleDiagnostic> {
        Some(RuleDiagnostic::new(
            rule_category!(),
            ctx.query().text_trimmed_range(),
            "message",
        ))
    }
}
```
