website/src/pages/linter/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Linter
emoji: ✅
category: tools
description: How to use the Rome linter.
---

import PackageManagerRomeCommand from "/components/PackageManagerRomeCommand.astro";

# Linter

Rome's linter statically analyzes your code to catch common errors and help you write more idiomatic code.

## Use the linter via CLI

You can start by running the CLI with the `--help` flag:

<PackageManagerRomeCommand command="check --help" />

Which will show you the options available at the moment:

```plaintext
Rome Check: Run the linter on a set of files

USAGE:
    rome check <INPUTS...>

    INPUTS can be one or more filesystem path, each pointing to a single file or an entire directory to be searched recursively for supported files

OPTIONS:
    --apply                       Apply safe fixes
    --apply-suggested             Apply safe and suggested fixes
    --max-diagnostics             Cap the amount of diagnostics displayed - default 20

```

## Code fixes

Lint rules may provide automatic code fixes. Rome distinguishes between two types of fixes:

- safe fixes
- suggested fixes

Safe fixes are guaranteed to not change the semantics of your code,
and can be applied without explicit review.

Suggested fixes may change the semantics of your program, and it's,
therefore, advised to manually review the changes.

## Ignoring Code

There are times when a developer wants to ignore a lint rule for a specific line of the code.

You can achieve this by adding a suppression comment above the line that is triggering the lint diagnostic.

Suppression comments have the following format:

```js
// rome-ignore lint: <explanation>
// rome-ignore lint/correctness/noDebugger: <explanation>
```

Where

- `rome-ignore` is the start of a suppression comment;
- `lint:` suppresses the linter;
- `(correctness/noDebugger)`: **optional**, group and name of the rule you want to suppress;
- `<explanation>` explanation why the rule is disabled

Here's an example:

```ts
// rome-ignore lint: reason
debugger;
// rome-ignore lint/correctness/noDebugger: reason
debugger;
```


## Configuration

### Enable a lint rule

Rules that are recommended are enabled by default. Rules that are not recommended
are not enabled, but they should be enabled via configuration.

To enable rules, you need to change their diagnostics severity based on your needs:

```json
{
  "linter": {
    "enabled": true,
    "rules": {
      "correctness": {
        "noDebugger": "error",
        "noSparseArray": "warn"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Disable a lint rule

Just add `"off"` as value inside its configuration. For example:

```json
{
  "linter": {
    "enabled": true,
    "rules": {
      "correctness": {
        "noCommentText": "off"
      },
      "style": {
        "noNegationElse": "off"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Change the diagnostic severity

Most of Rome's rules will emit an **error**, but you are free to change their severity.
Just add `"warn"` as value of the rule. Example:

```json
{
  "linter": {
    "enabled": true,
    "rules": {
      "correctness": {
        "noCommentText": "warn"
      },
      "style": {
        "noNegationElse": "error"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

This is useful in cases there's being a refactor going on and there's need to make the
CI passing.

## Rule options

Not all the rules require options, but when they do _accept_ some, you can pass them
by shaping the value of the rule in a different way.

```json
{
  "linter": {
    "enabled": true,
    "rules": {
      "correctness": {
        "noCommentText": {
          "level": "warn",
          "options": {}
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

- `level` will indicate the severity of the diagnostic, valid values are: `"off"`, `"warn"` and `"error"`;
- `options` is a wildcard value, meaning that will change based on the rule;

Commit message:

refactor(rome_js_analyze): enable the recommended nursery rules on unstable builds (#3880)
* add test for nested recommended settings

* refactor `rome_flags` to expose a single `is_unstable` function

* mark all nursery rules as recommended

* add a test to ensure nursery rules are enabled in unstable builds

* add contributor documentation for the recommended flag

* mark additional rules as recommended and update playground

* update documentation

* update documentation

* Update website/src/pages/linter/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: Emanuele Stoppa <my.burning@gmail.com>

* fix or suppress errors from nursery rules

* additional rule fixes

Co-authored-by: Emanuele Stoppa <my.burning@gmail.com>

website/src/pages/linter/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Linter
emoji: ✅
category: tools
description: How to use the Rome linter.
---

import PackageManagerRomeCommand from "/components/PackageManagerRomeCommand.astro";

# Linter

Rome's linter statically analyzes your code to catch common errors and help you write more idiomatic code.

## Use the linter via CLI

You can start by running the CLI with the `--help` flag:

<PackageManagerRomeCommand command="check --help" />

Which will show you the options available at the moment:

```plaintext
Rome Check: Run the linter on a set of files

USAGE:
    rome check <INPUTS...>

    INPUTS can be one or more filesystem path, each pointing to a single file or an entire directory to be searched recursively for supported files

OPTIONS:
    --apply                       Apply safe fixes
    --apply-suggested             Apply safe and suggested fixes
    --max-diagnostics             Cap the amount of diagnostics displayed - default 20

```

## Code fixes

Lint rules may provide automatic code fixes. Rome distinguishes between two types of fixes:

- safe fixes
- suggested fixes

Safe fixes are guaranteed to not change the semantics of your code,
and can be applied without explicit review.

Suggested fixes may change the semantics of your program, and it's,
therefore, advised to manually review the changes.

## Ignoring Code

There are times when a developer wants to ignore a lint rule for a specific line of the code.

You can achieve this by adding a suppression comment above the line that is triggering the lint diagnostic.

Suppression comments have the following format:

```js
// rome-ignore lint: <explanation>
// rome-ignore lint/correctness/noDebugger: <explanation>
```

Where

- `rome-ignore` is the start of a suppression comment;
- `lint:` suppresses the linter;
- `(correctness/noDebugger)`: **optional**, group and name of the rule you want to suppress;
- `<explanation>` explanation why the rule is disabled

Here's an example:

```ts
// rome-ignore lint: reason
debugger;
// rome-ignore lint/correctness/noDebugger: reason
debugger;
```


## Configuration

### Enable a lint rule

Rules that are recommended are enabled by default and emit diagnostics with
the error severity. Rules that are not recommended are not enabled by default,
but they can be enabled via configuration. The diagnostics emitted by these
rules are displayed with the warning severity in the documentation.

To enable rules, you need to change their diagnostics severity based on your needs:

```json
{
  "linter": {
    "enabled": true,
    "rules": {
      "correctness": {
        "noDebugger": "error",
        "noSparseArray": "warn"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Disable a lint rule

Just add `"off"` as value inside its configuration. For example:

```json
{
  "linter": {
    "enabled": true,
    "rules": {
      "correctness": {
        "noCommentText": "off"
      },
      "style": {
        "noNegationElse": "off"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Change the diagnostic severity

Most of Rome's rules will emit an **error**, but you are free to change their severity.
Just add `"warn"` as value of the rule. Example:

```json
{
  "linter": {
    "enabled": true,
    "rules": {
      "correctness": {
        "noCommentText": "warn"
      },
      "style": {
        "noNegationElse": "error"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

This is useful in cases there's being a refactor going on and there's need to make the
CI passing.

## Rule options

Not all the rules require options, but when they do _accept_ some, you can pass them
by shaping the value of the rule in a different way.

```json
{
  "linter": {
    "enabled": true,
    "rules": {
      "correctness": {
        "noCommentText": {
          "level": "warn",
          "options": {}
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

- `level` will indicate the severity of the diagnostic, valid values are: `"off"`, `"warn"` and `"error"`;
- `options` is a wildcard value, meaning that will change based on the rule;
