website/src/_includes/docs/philosophy.md, before:

## Philosophy

This list includes general ethos the project should abide by. This list is not comprehensive. Some of these are obvious but are stated for completeness.

### Technical

- **Errors should suggest fixes and hints where possible.** These should be inferred and filtered from usage to reduce surfacing irrelevant and unhelpful messages.
- **Unique and specific error messages.** No generic error messages. This not only helps users understand what went wrong, but should provide maintainers with a unique call site and the necessary information to debug.
- **Minimize API.** Question the existence of all options and flags. Are they necessary? Can they be combined? How can we reduce code branching?
- **Reduce jargon.** Don't assume that users will understand specific terminology. Strive to provide clear meaning for experts and beginners. For example, use "character" where you would traditionally use "token" when producing parser errors.
- **Utilize verbosity when naming commands and flags.** No unnecessary and confusing abbreviations.
- **Use inclusive terminology.** Use gender-neutral pronouns. No ableist slurs. No usage of terms that could be considered insensitive.
- **Build for generic clients.** Don't assume that output will only be consumed by a terminal and using ANSI codes. Use abstractions that could be generalized for viewing in an IDE, browser, or other environments.
- **Terminal output should be unambiguous.** When designing terminal output, don't purely rely on formatting cues such as color. Always use a combination of formatting, symbols, and spacing. If all ANSI codes are stripped, all the output should still be understood.

Commit message:

chore(website): add project management section (#3005)

website/src/_includes/docs/philosophy.md, after:

## Philosophy

This list includes general ethos the project should abide by. This list is not comprehensive. Some of these are obvious but are stated for completeness.

### Project Management

- **Set clear expectations.** Make project intent and decisions known well in advance. Nothing should be a surprise.
- **Clear messaging of decisions.** The team might evaluate options and make decisions using private channels. While the team will try to keep discussions
using public channels like GitHub Discussions or Discord, frequent private check-in are the norm, due to the nature of the private company.
When decisions occur via private channels, the team has to commit to communicate these decisions using the public channels.

### Technical

- **Errors should suggest fixes and hints where possible.** These should be inferred and filtered from usage to reduce surfacing irrelevant and unhelpful messages.
- **Unique and specific error messages.** No generic error messages. This not only helps users understand what went wrong, but should provide maintainers with a unique call site and the necessary information to debug.
- **Optimise API.** Question the existence of all options and flags. Are they necessary? Can they be combined? How can we reduce code branching?
- **Reduce jargon.** Don't assume that users will understand specific terminology. Strive to provide clear meaning for experts and beginners. For example, use "character" where you would traditionally use "token" when producing parser errors.
- **Utilize verbosity when naming commands and flags.** No unnecessary and confusing abbreviations.
- **Use inclusive terminology.** Use gender-neutral pronouns. No ableist slurs. No usage of terms that could be considered insensitive.
- **Build for generic clients.** Don't assume that output will only be consumed by a terminal and using ANSI codes. Use abstractions that could be generalized for viewing in an IDE, browser, or other environments.
- **Terminal output should be unambiguous.** When designing terminal output, don't purely rely on formatting cues such as color. Always use a combination of formatting, symbols, and spacing. If all ANSI codes are stripped, all the output should still be understood.
