website/src/_includes/docs/status.md, before:


## Development Status

**Rome is being rewritten in Rust, so it doesn't support all the intended features**.

We plan on covering the following areas:

- Bundling
- Compiling
- Documentation Generation
- Formatting
- Linting
- Minification
- Testing
- Type Checking
- ... and more

### Areas available

- Formatter, check the [formatter section](#formatter)
- Linter, check the [linter section](#linter)

### Language Support

| Language                           | Parsing                                                 | Formatting                                              | Linting                                                 |
|------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|
| [JavaScript](/#javascript-support) | <span aria-label="Supported" role="img">✅</span>        | <span aria-label="Supported" role="img">✅</span>        | <span aria-label="Supported" role="img">✅</span>        |
| [TypeScript](/#typescript-support) | <span aria-label="Supported" role="img">✅</span>        | <span aria-label="Supported" role="img">✅</span>        | <span aria-label="Supported" role="img">✅</span>        |
| JSX                                | <span aria-label="Supported" role="img">✅</span>        | <span aria-label="Supported" role="img">✅️</span>       | <span aria-label="Supported" role="img">✅</span>        |
| JSON                               | <span aria-label="Not in Progress" role="img">🚫</span> | <span aria-label="Not in Progress" role="img">🚫</span> | <span aria-label="Not in Progress" role="img">🚫</span> |
| HTML                               | <span aria-label="Not in Progress" role="img">🚫</span> | <span aria-label="Not in Progress" role="img">🚫</span> | <span aria-label="Not in Progress" role="img">🚫</span> |
| CSS                                | <span aria-label="Not in progress" role="img">🚫</span> | <span aria-label="Not in Progress" role="img">🚫</span> | <span aria-label="Not in Progress" role="img">🚫</span> |
| Markdown                           | <span aria-label="Not in progress" role="img">🚫</span> | <span aria-label="Not in Progress" role="img">🚫</span> | <span aria-label="Not in Progress" role="img">🚫</span> |


#### JavaScript support

Rome supports only the official syntax. The team starts developments of the new syntax when a proposal reaches
[Stage 3](https://github.com/tc39/proposals#stage-3). 

Rome supports ES2022 version of the language.

#### TypeScript support

Rome doesn't support decorators (the old proposal). Rome's parser will ignore them as if they were comments.
This means that programs with decorators are still valid, but they won't 
benefit all the underlying features such as formatter, analyzers, etc.

Commit message:

chore: Re-structure Website
This PR restructures our Website by:

* Removing the dead careers link
* Moving the API documentation into the footer
* Splitting out a new `Docs` page (inspired by Tailwind, Parcel, Eslint, ...)

Improving the layout by

* Using the `--primary-color` for the active link in the TOC
* Using `font-weight: bold` for the main titles in the TOC

The PR includes some fixes:
* Enable the TOC for blog posts (requires change the header to `h2` and adding an id.
* Add the `DESCRIPTION_END` marker to only render the header of the rome formatter release blog post in the overview

I further made some improvements to the content.

## Long term

I think we want to move to a multi-page documentation where we have a page per section. This gives us more layouting option (and e.g. allows to directly link to the lint rules in the docs TOC). However, I don't know how to easily achieve this with our current website.

website/src/_includes/docs/status.md, after:


## Development Status

**Rome is being written in Rust, so it doesn't support all the intended features**.

Rome's vision is to cover the following features:

- Bundling
- Compiling
- Documentation Generation
- Formatting
- Linting
- Minification
- Testing
- Type Checking
- ... and more

### Supported Features

- [Formatter](/docs#formatter)
- [Linter](/docs#linter)

### Language Support

| Language                           | Parsing                                                 | Formatting                                              | Linting                                                 |
|------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|
| [JavaScript](/#javascript-support) | <span aria-label="Supported" role="img">✅</span>        | <span aria-label="Supported" role="img">✅</span>        | <span aria-label="Supported" role="img">✅</span>        |
| [TypeScript](/#typescript-support) | <span aria-label="Supported" role="img">✅</span>        | <span aria-label="Supported" role="img">✅</span>        | <span aria-label="Supported" role="img">✅</span>        |
| JSX                                | <span aria-label="Supported" role="img">✅</span>        | <span aria-label="Supported" role="img">✅️</span>       | <span aria-label="Supported" role="img">✅</span>        |
| JSON                               | <span aria-label="Not in Progress" role="img">🚫</span> | <span aria-label="Not in Progress" role="img">🚫</span> | <span aria-label="Not in Progress" role="img">🚫</span> |
| HTML                               | <span aria-label="Not in Progress" role="img">🚫</span> | <span aria-label="Not in Progress" role="img">🚫</span> | <span aria-label="Not in Progress" role="img">🚫</span> |
| CSS                                | <span aria-label="Not in progress" role="img">🚫</span> | <span aria-label="Not in Progress" role="img">🚫</span> | <span aria-label="Not in Progress" role="img">🚫</span> |
| Markdown                           | <span aria-label="Not in progress" role="img">🚫</span> | <span aria-label="Not in Progress" role="img">🚫</span> | <span aria-label="Not in Progress" role="img">🚫</span> |


#### JavaScript Support

Rome supports ES2022.

Rome supports only the official syntax. The team starts developments of the new syntax when a proposal reaches
[Stage 3](https://github.com/tc39/proposals#stage-3).

#### TypeScript Support

Rome doesn't support decorators (the old proposal). Rome's parser will ignore them as if they were comments.
This means that programs with decorators are still valid, but they won't
benefit all the underlying features such as formatter, analyzers, etc.
